**Political Science 3210F -- Canada-US relations**

## Land Acknowledgement

Western University is situated on the traditional territories of the
Anishinaabeg, Haudenosaunee, Lunaapeewak and Attawandaron peoples, who
have longstanding relationships to the land and region of southwestern
Ontario and the City of London. The local First Nation communities of
this area include Chippewas of the Thames First Nation, Oneida Nation of
the Thames, and Munsee Delaware Nation. In the region, there are eleven
First Nation communities and a growing Indigenous urban population.
Western values the significant historical and contemporary contributions
of local and regional First Nations and all of the Original peoples of
Turtle Island (North America).

## Calls to action:

- Read the Truth and Reconciliation Commission findings and the
  Commission\'s calls to action, then find a way you can support the
  fulfillment of [those calls to
  action](http://www.trc.ca/about-us/trc-findings.html)

- Read the national inquiry into [missing and murdered indigenous women
  and girls and the 231 calls for
  justice](https://www.mmiwg-ffada.ca/final-report/)

- Take time to learn more about the history and continuing experiences
  of indigenous peoples

- Remove colonial monuments

- Call on institutions to decolonize, indigenous scholarship and
  knowledge systems continued to be marginalized and erased

- Encourage contribution to indigenous led organisations, in particular,
  the Indian Residential School Survival Society <https://irsss.ca>

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Course        Canada-US Relations
  Title:**        
  --------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
  **Location:**   See your timetable

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

  --------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Instructor:**   Dan Bousfield
  ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------
  **Office Hours:** Wednesday 11:00am-1:00pm via zoom - link in Brightspace

  **Email:**        dbousfie@uwo.ca

  **Text only       289-620-6665
  phone**           

  **Facebook        *Optional*
  group**           

  **Zoom**          Available at the course webpage
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Prerequisite(s):

Unless you have either the requisites for this course or written special
permission from your Dean to enroll in it, you may be removed from this
course and it will be deleted from your record. This decision may not be
appealed. You will receive no adjustment to your fees if you are dropped
from a course for failing to have the necessary prerequisites.

# Introduction: 

This course will help you critically assess the current state of
Canadian American relations through a variety of perspectives, issues
and policy debates. We will emphasize the importance of theories and
arguments related to North American integration and divergence from
local, regional and global perspectives. We will explore economic and
political integration as well as forms of divergence where students will
analyze developments in the areas of defence, security, environment,
culture and labour. Students will also debate and discuss the processes
of policy development in comparative terms, with an emphasis on the role
of actors in civil society.

## Learning Objectives:

Through this course all students will have the opportunity to:

- Discuss different approaches to Canada-US relations

- Describe the key events, changes over time and the current state of
  Canada-US relations

- Think critically and write about an issue in Canada-US relations

- Analyze the role of media and public opinion in shaping Canada-US
  relations

- Evaluate the effectiveness of policy or inter-state issue in Canada-US
  relations

- Participate in a presentation about the history, context or ideas of a
  Canada-US issue

- Analyze current policy and political issues between Canada and the US

- Discuss a current Canada-US issue in historical context

Anti-requisites: Political Science 2139, 3367F/G, 3326E

Prerequisites: Political Science 2531 or 2532 (or the old 2230E or 2231E
or 2244E)

## Course Materials

All readings are available on-line, on the university online library
reserve, or through the library search. Please do not turn off
announcements in OWL Brightspace as you may miss important course
content and notifications.

All course material will be posted to OWL Brightspace:
[[https://westernu.brightspace.com/]{.underline}](https://westernu.brightspace.com/).
If students need assistance with OWL Brightspace, they can seek support
on the [[OWL Brightspace
Help]{.underline}](https://brightspacehelp.uwo.ca/) page. Alternatively,
they can contact the [[Western Technology Services
Helpdesk]{.underline}](https://wts.uwo.ca/helpdesk) online or by phone
at 519-661-3800 or ext. 83800 for technical support. Current versions of
all popular browsers (e.g., Safari, Chrome, Edge, Firefox) are supported
with OWL Brightspace; what is most important is that you update your
browser frequently to ensure it is current. All JavaScript and cookies
should be enabled.\"

### Background resources: 

This course assumes a popular level of understanding of Canadian and
American relations, but a primer for topics and issues of which you may
be unfamiliar can be useful. Apart from the suggested textbooks you
should also check out recent issues of "Key Journals and Annuals" for
the study of Canadian Foreign Policy & Canada-U.S. Relations (courtesy
of John Kirton, U of Toronto, 2009, via Srdjan Vucetic):

[Canadian Foreign
Policy](http://www.tandfonline.com/toc/rcfp20/current#.U-t5w_ldXXo)

[Centre for International Governance
Innovation](https://www.cigionline.org/)

[International Journal](https://journals.sagepub.com/home/IJX)

[Global Brief](http://globalbrief.ca/)

[American Review of Canadian
Studies](http://www.tandfonline.com/toc/rarc20/current#.U-t6JvldXXo)

[Canadian Public Policy](http://www.utpjournals.press/loi/cpp)

[Policy Options](http://policyoptions.irpp.org/)

[Canadian Journal of Political
Science](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/canadian-journal-of-political-science-revue-canadienne-de-science-politique/latest-issue)

[Literary Review of Canada](http://reviewcanada.ca/) (reviews of recent
books)

### Approved Podcasts for participation:

The following are podcasts with recent debates and discussion of
Canada-US issues. They may be used for participation if your response
engages with academic course material.

[CIGI podcasts](https://www.cigionline.org/multimedia/)

[Canadaland](https://www.canadaland.com/podcasts/)

[CGAI Podcasts](https://www.cgai.ca/the_cgai_podcast_network)

[CANUSA Street
Podcast](https://www.wilsoncenter.org/podcast-series/canusa-street-podcast)

Crowd-sourced essay resources:

Given that you will be researching a specific area of Canada-US
relations throughout the course, it makes sense to develop your
knowledge alongside those who have come before you. Consequently, I
encourage students to add and remove useful essay sources from a list
provided on week 1. These are some starting points for your research,
but not exhaustive or necessarily relevant to your approach, so remain
critical about their use.

# Methods of Evaluation

+---------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Option 1                        | Option 2                           |
+=================================+====================================+
| Weekly Participation 25%        | Weekly Participation 25%           |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Term Assignment 25% - Primarily | Term Assignment 25% - Primarily    |
| due by the end of week 7.       | due by the end of week 7.          |
|                                 |                                    |
| Signup by the end of week 3,    | Signup by the end of week 3,       |
| always requires formal academic | always requires formal academic    |
| accommodation for rescheduling, | accommodation for rescheduling, no |
| no accommodation past November  | accommodation past November 25th,  |
| 25th, 2025.                     | 2025.                              |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Essay or Policy Analysis 35% -  | Summative Assignment 10% -- Due at |
| Due at the end of Week 9        | the end of Week 11 (December 8,    |
|                                 | 2025, 11:59 PM. Minimum 2500 words |
| (Nov 24, 2025, 11:59 PM).       | required.                          |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Exam 15% - Online or in-person  | Exam 40% -- In person examination  |
| exam During Exam Period         | only                               |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------+

## For all written work in this course: 

This course requires a minimum of 2500 words of academic prose to meet
university requirements for 3000-level half courses.

## Paragraph structure 

Basic paragraph structure is an important part of writing. Failure to
use basic paragraph structure will result in repetitive, unstructured,
and illogical arguments. Paragraphs help to structure our thoughts, our
ability to make claims, and provide a framework for writing. The topic
sentence and concluding sentence of each paragraph should be in your own
voice (no direct references, quotations, or citations). A basic
paragraph structure should follow this template:

- Topic/introduction, in one or two sentences

- Major point with factual evidence, one or two sentences (one sentence
  with ***relevant*** academic citation and one sentence explaining the
  relevance in your own words, demonstrating individual voice and
  reflection)

- Major point with factual evidence, one or two sentences (one sentence
  with ***relevant*** academic citation and one sentence explaining the
  relevance in your own words, demonstrating individual voice and
  reflection)

- Major point with factual evidence, one or two sentences (one sentence
  with ***relevant*** academic citation and one sentence explaining the
  relevance in your own words, demonstrating individual voice and
  reflection)

- Summarizing sentence of overall significance to the overarching thesis
  of the paper and

- Concluding sentence which restates topic sentence and bridges to next
  paragraph.

Failure to use basic paragraph structure throughout your work will
result in the inability to receive full marks.

These paragraph formatting requirements are not arbitrary. There is a
specific reason that I want you to use peer-reviewed academic sources, a
MINIMUM of THREE DIFFERENT ACADEMIC SOURCES per paragraph. WHY?

- First, the difference between opinion and argument is the provision of
  evidence.

- Second, for an academic argument to have veracity, it needs to have an
  arm\'s length perspective, it needs to draw on peer-reviewed sources
  because individual interpretation is prone to error.

- Next, if we have more than one academic source per paragraph if one of
  those sources is weak or questionable the other two will supplement
  it.

- Moreover, multiple sources prevent summary or representation of
  someone else\'s ideas as your own, if you must interpret multiple data
  sources.

- Finally, academic sources have explanatory frameworks that link them
  to underlying theoretical concepts and ideas. News sources, data
  points, and journalism provide evidence without analysis, academic
  work provides analysis with evidence. If you don\'t have that
  consistently throughout your writing, you are going to run into
  problems of the veracity of your claims because they lack
  substantiation.

If any of your sentences, paragraphs, or quotations lack a specific
foundation, you will not receive credit for those submissions.

Lack of data is a lack of foundation. In the era of LLMs, inaccurate
citations will be treated as no citation at all. LLMs routinely
summarize sources without accessing the underlying data. **Failure to
directly quote sources with quotation marks followed by an explanation
in your own words will constitute a lack of sufficient citation.**
**Paraphrasing is no longer sufficient justification for including a
citation**; you must use specific and precise language, including nouns
(specific people, places, and things), as generalized summaries of
sources are often hallucinated, inaccurate, and incomplete when
suggested by LLMs.

Weasel words---vague or evasive language that obscures
meaning---undermine thesis-driven political arguments by avoiding clear
claims and weakening the connection between evidence and position. As
Theodore Roosevelt warned in 1916, they drain content from statements
like a weasel empties an egg: the form remains, but the substance is
gone. In political science, precision matters. Ambiguity dilutes
argument.

Why are weasel words proliferating?

- LLMs avoid strong claims to minimize liability, leading to weasel
  words.

- They replicate academic tone through pattern-matching, not reasoning,
  producing vague phrasing.

- They favor generalizations to ensure broad applicability and avoid
  exclusion.

- They use soft language to evade controversy or implied stance.

- Their training data overrepresents cautious, formulaic academic prose.

- They default to description over argument due to lack of critical
  capacity.

## General information about missed coursework

Students must familiarize themselves with the *University Policy on
Academic Consideration -- Undergraduate Students in First Entry
Programs* posted on the Academic Calendar:

<https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/academic_consideration_Sep24.pdf>,

This policy does not apply to requests for Academic Consideration
submitted for **attempted or completed work**, whether online or in
person.

The policy also does not apply to students experiencing longer-term
impacts on their academic responsibilities. These students should
consult [Accessible
Education](http://academicsupport.uwo.ca/accessible_education/).

For procedures on how to submit Academic Consideration requests, please
see the information posted on the Office of the Registrar's webpage:

<https://registrar.uwo.ca/academics/academic_considerations/>

All requests for Academic Consideration must be made within 48 hours
after the assessment date or submission deadline.

All Academic Consideration requests must include supporting
documentation; however, recognizing that formal documentation may not be
available in some extenuating circumstances, the policy allows students
to make [one]{.underline} Academic Consideration request **without
supporting documentation** in this course. However, the following
assessments are excluded from this, and therefore always require formal
supporting documentation:

Term Assignment

When a student *[mistakenly]{.underline}* submits their
[one]{.underline} allowed Academic Consideration request **without
supporting documentation** for the assessments listed above or those in
the **Coursework with Assessment Flexibility** section below, [the
request cannot be recalled and reapplied]{.underline}. This privilege is
forfeited.

Coursework with Assessment Flexibility

By policy, instructors may deny Academic Consideration requests for the
following assessments with built-in flexibility.

Flexible Completion assignments:

Weekly participation. This course has 12 weekly participation
assignments, and the 10 quizzes with the highest marks are counted
towards your final grade. Should extenuating circumstances arise,
students do not need to request Academic Consideration for the first 2
missed weekly participations. Academic consideration requests will be
denied for the first 2 missed weekly participation assignments.

Religious Accommodation

When conflicts with a religious holiday that requires an absence from
the University or prohibits certain activities, students should request
an accommodation for their absence in writing to the course instructor
and/or the Academic Advising office of their Faculty of Registration.
This notice should be made as early as possible but not later than two
weeks prior to the writing or the examination (or one week prior to the
writing of the test).

Please visit the Diversity Calendars posted on our university's EDID
website for the recognized religious holidays:
[https://www.edi.uwo.ca](https://www.edi.uwo.ca/)

Accommodation Policies

Students with disabilities are encouraged to contact Accessible
Education, which provides recommendations for accommodation based on
medical documentation or psychological and cognitive testing. The policy
on Academic Accommodation for Students with Disabilities can be found
at:
<https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/Academic%20Accommodation_disabilities.pdf>

Academic Policies- The website for Registrar Services is
<https://www.registrar.uwo.ca/>.

In accordance with policy,
<https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/policies_procedures/section1/mapp113.pdf>

the centrally administered e-mail account provided to students will be
considered the individual's official university e-mail address. It is
the responsibility of the account holder to ensure that e-mail received
from the University at their official university address is attended to
in a timely manner.

Scholastic offences are taken seriously and students are directed to
read the appropriate policy, specifically, the definition of what
constitutes a Scholastic Offence, at the following Web site:

<https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/scholastic_discipline_undergrad.pdf>

All required papers may be subject to submission for textual similarity
review to the commercial plagiarism detection software under license to
the University for the detection of plagiarism. All papers submitted for
such checking will be included as source documents in the reference
database for the purpose of detecting plagiarism of papers subsequently
submitted to the system. Use of the service is subject to the licensing
agreement, currently between The Alexa what\'s 25 \* 0.7 University of
Western Ontario and Turnitin.com
([http://www.turnitin.com](http://www.turnitin.com/)).

## Weekly Participation --(Weekly submissions) 

Weekly Assignments -- Base submission is pass/fail 70% (17.5 of 25)

Students **must** complete a minimum of **two engagement options
weekly** (Monday 12:01 am - Sunday 11:59 pm) to fulfill participation
requirements. Quizzes can be completed each week for one participation
mark. The remaining forms of participation can only be done twice each
during the entire course (i.e. you can only do 2 tiktoks per semester).
You can collaborate with peers on submissions, but they must be
submitted individually. You must adopt 5 different forms of
participation throughout the course to build your portfolio and prevent
rote production of participation. A total of 10 weeks of participation
is required, allowing students to skip 2 weeks (e.g., weeks 1 and 12).
Completing 10 weeks fulfills the full 70%. If you are submitting the
same assignment for a second time, make sure to address 'What did I do
differently this week?'

Weekly Engagement Options (a minimum of two options required per week):

1.  Brightspace Lesson Quiz Completion: Complete the 2 lesson quizzes in
    the 'Tests & Quizzes' section. These quizzes are pass/fail; only
    completion is counted, not quiz score. Each quiz counts for one
    participation mark. In-class exercises can also count for participation but are unlikely to help you achieve your word count requirements.

2.  Written Responses (250 words per lesson): A reflective analysis
    engaging with lesson ideas and concepts from lectures, readings, or
    both. This is not a summary but a critical engagement that links
    material to current international issues. Proper essay paragraph
    structure and intext citations are required where applicable. You
    must reference the course readings at least three times per week to
    get maximum grades. Submissions not meeting these standards are
    ineligible for full credit. Each written response counts for one
    participation mark. See detailed criteria below.

3.  Video Responses: A short (TikTok-style) video exploring a key
    academic issue from each lesson's content, suitable for a general
    audience. Videos must reference at least one academic, peer-reviewed
    source from our reading list and can be uploaded to Brightspace each
    week (or linked if hosted elsewhere). Public posting is not
    required. Each video counts for one participation mark.

4.  Other forms of participation from this list:
    <https://uwaterloo.ca/centre-for-teaching-excellence/Assessment-AI-Strategies>
    excluding: True/False Questions, Quiz, Exams and Tests,
    Fill-in-the-Blank Questions, Close Reading with Questions, Diagram
    or Image-Based Questions, Summary. If you have any questions please
    contact the instructor about the viability of your participation.

> Sample weekly participation submission:![Picture 565367195,
> Picture](/media/image2.png){width="4.989583333333333in"
> height="1.7916666666666667in"}

A Final calculation activity is **required** to receive your
participation mark.

At the end of the course students just need to calculate their
participation based on the submissions each week throughout the course.
We will take your top 10 weeks.\
\
2 forms of participation per week = 70% (pass/fail)\
\
More than 2 forms of participation each week, or substantive improvement
can result in a higher grade (the 80, 85 and 90 grades below are
approximations, I withhold the right to assess the quality of the
submission and adjust the grade accordingly). You should be able to
demonstrate your responses to my feedback, engaging with different
course material each week to demonstrate improvement throughout the
course. See Brightspace for an example of how to calculate your
participation grade.

## Attendance Bonus (5% on Final Exam)

Students will receive a 1% bonus on their final exam grade for every two
classes attended (attendance must be recorded through the Microsoft form
each week during class time), with a maximum of 10 classes considered to
earn the full 5% bonus. You can check your participation through the
link in Brightspace weekly. You cannot receive more than 100% on the
final exam.

Term Assignment: (requires documentation for an academic consideration)

### Option 1 -- Paired Debate 

In teams of two ONLY, students should pick a specific issue related to
their area of interest from the list of Canada-US issues provided each
week as 'Weekly topics' (i.e. gun control). The debate should outline
the key issues from both sides (Canadian or American) and points of
contention and present each side coherently and convincingly to the
class. Each pair should try to convey the perspective of the two sides
as well as the actual outcome. MAXIMUM 5 MINUTES.\
The presentation should highlight:\
1. Key American and Canadian actors involved\
2. Relevant context or history related to the issue\
3. Claims and evidence put forward on both side\
4. Likely or actual outcome of the issue and the trajectory of the
relations moving forward

Students will need to upload their presentation in an accessible and
clear format (such as a series of tiktoks back and forth, youtube, or
well-structured podcast (podcasts require a written outline of topics
related to the discussion as well as academic sources that link to the
course), they cannot be unstructured) for each week they sign up.
Students must upload their presentation on the week they sign up or else
they forfeit their grade. Students are encouraged to think creatively
about how they will present the debate, and presentations may take
alternative formats if they accomplish the requirements outlined above.
To receive an individual mark, students must upload a short (200 word)
summary of their role in the debate preparation and execution, assessing
their groups' strengths and weaknesses, otherwise both students will
receive the same grade.

### Option 2 -- Essay Proposal (sample essay proposals [are available here](http://tiny.cc/3210_2025))

Students will produce a 1000 word description, excluding references (250
words per page) of the area of interest for the study, due at the end of
**Week 7**. The assignment should highlight the area of interest of your
research; the different perspectives that could be used to research the
topic (methods, approaches, issues, events or people); one form of
analysis that you think will be most fruitful; as well as a list of
potential sources that are directly relevant to your area of interest
(potential issues, gaps or problems with this list can be addressed in
the assignment). The assignment must be in proper formal essay format
(no bullet points, short form or colloquial language), should use
subheadings to identify key issues, use proper citation and should NOT
INCLUDE ANY FORM OF ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY. Dictionaries, encyclopedias,
and Wikipedia should not be used, and use of web material is subject to
instructor's prior approval. A basic structure for the assignment would
be:

1\) Title, topic and thesis question or area of interest for potential
research. Preapproved [topics and approaches are
here.](http://tiny.cc/3210_2025)

2\) Possible approaches to study the issue. [A complete list is
available here.](http://tiny.cc/3210_2025) Explain why the method(s)
chosen seems most appropriate.

3\) A summary of key points or issues likely to structure your research.
These should outline key

ideas, concepts, people or places, but express clear analytical
thinking. Simple lists or unfocused summaries are not likely to receive
high marks.

4\) A discussion of potential problems or pitfalls in this issue and/or
weaknesses in the list of resources you have compiled. This is not an
annotated bibliography; rather it is an assessment and overview of
common themes, common author perspectives, missing arguments or
evidence, weak analyses, etc.

6\) An overarching statement of the usefulness or goals of the research
and why the topic chosen is relevant to Canada‐US relations. This could
form the basis for the introduction or conclusion of your later research
but should provide a general overview.

7\) The list of resources you are likely to draw upon in the paper as
well as any that you have cited in

the preparatory work (in other words, your bibliography). Students must
engage with at least three course texts to complete the assignment, and
most sources should be from our course readings. There must be a minimum
of 4 academic sources (and they should cover at least three different
themes in your work). You must include a discussion of the importance of
one of the suggested 'approach' readings, or your assignment will be
considered incomplete.

8\) A title page with your name, a title for your future research, the
date of submission and the course number on it.

### Option 3 - Media Assessment

Due at the end of **Week 7.** This assignment will critically engage
with a movie or documentary that deals with Canada‐US relations. A list
of acceptable material is available on the course webpage, and all media
must have sufficient levels of Canada‐US content to warrant its use. All
media assessments must have prior approval of the instructor and must be
signed up on the course website at least 2 weeks before it is handed in.
The media assessment must critically engage with the content of the
movie for its use in understanding Canada‐US relations, as well as base
arguments in academic research and debates. You should assess the media
for its arguments about Canada‐US relations, and the viability of the
arguments given the academic debates on the issue. The assignment should
be a minimum of 1000 words, in proper essay format (with title page and
bibliography) and have a minimum of 4 academic sources. Proper essay
paragraph structure is required, as is proper footnoting and citation
(see the course outline for formatting instructions)

Approved media:

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| HBO. (2010). \*The Fence\* \[Documentary\]. HBO.                      |
| <http://www.hbo.com/documentaries/the-fence/index.html>               |
|                                                                       |
| Bozzo, S. (2008). \*Blue Gold: World Water Wars\* \[Documentary\].    |
| <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B1a3tjqQiBI> Fox, J. (2010).          |
| \*Gasland\* \[Documentary\]. International WOW Company.               |
| <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4jYsXBl7xeY>                          |
|                                                                       |
| Schmidt, L. (2009). \*Dirty Oil\* \[Documentary\]. Brightwide Films.  |
|                                                                       |
| Field, T. (2011). \*Tipping Point: The End of Oil\* \[Documentary\].  |
| Directed by Tom Radford and Niobe Thompson. Clearwater Media.         |
|                                                                       |
| Parker, T., & Stone, M. (1999). \*South Park: Bigger, Longer &        |
| Uncut\* \[Film\]. Paramount Pictures.                                 |
|                                                                       |
| Parker, T., & Stone, M. (Creators). (1997--present). \*South Park\*   |
| \[TV Series\]. Comedy Central.                                        |
|                                                                       |
| Moore, M. (1995). \*Canadian Bacon\* \[Film\]. PolyGram Filmed        |
| Entertainment.                                                        |
|                                                                       |
| Reed, A. (Creator). (2012). \*Archer\* (Season 3, Episode 6) \[TV     |
| Series Episode\]. FX Networks.                                        |
|                                                                       |
| Hanson, H. (Creator). (2011). \*Bones\* (Season 6, Episode 17) \[TV   |
| Series Episode\]. Fox Broadcasting Company.                           |
|                                                                       |
| Ferguson, R. (2015). \*Being Canadian\* \[Documentary\]. Candy        |
| Factory Films.                                                        |
|                                                                       |
| Affleck, B. (Director). (2012). \*Argo\* \[Film\]. Warner Bros.       |
| Pictures.                                                             |
|                                                                       |
| Knight, S., Hardy, T., & Hardy, C. (Creators). (2017). \*Taboo\* \[TV |
| Series\]. BBC One and FX Networks.                                    |
|                                                                       |
| Waititi, T., & Harjo, S. (Creators). (2021--present). \*Reservation   |
| Dogs\* \[TV Series\]. FX on Hulu.                                     |
+=======================================================================+

## Option 4: Community Engaged Learning

A few students will have the option of participating in a Community
Engaged Learning (CEL) opportunity with an offsite organization involved
in Canada-US issues. Students must submit an application for the
opportunity to participate and will be graded on their successful
completion of their placement and a short (1000 word) reflective summary
that links their work with the CEL to class content. The reflection is
just about how you felt about it in the beginning, middle and end and
how your expectations changed over time. I am looking for reflection, if
you can link to course themes that would be great, but I am really
assessing reflection in general. It shouldn\'t be too long - I feel the
CEL placement is the bulk of the work, it is really just an expanded
version of the logs with some reflection on what happened, how your
expectations changed and what you would say to someone who wanted to do
it next year (i.e. 4-5 double spaced pages).

## Essay or Policy Analysis (if chosen)

Due at the end of **Week 9** (Nov 24, 2025, 11:59 PM).

The final draft of the paper should be 8 pages (2000 words) in length
(excluding the bibliography) and must be presented in proper scholarly
format. The instructor may require that 10% of randomly selected
students will have to meet to discuss their paper after completion to
ensure there has been no improper LLM use. Students will write a major
research paper (A) or policy analysis (B) (based primarily on academic
sources) on a topic of their choice, to be arrived at in consultation
with the instructor. Essay/policy analysis topics should be chosen by
week 8. The essay will choose a pre-approved topic, and explicit
discussion of one of the approved approaches from the course. The
assignment must be in proper formal essay format (no bullet points,
short form or colloquial language, can use subheadings to identify
sections, use proper citation and should NOT INCLUDE ANY FORM OF
ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY. Dictionaries, encyclopedias, and Wikipedia
should not be used, and use of web material is subject to instructor's
prior approval. A basic structure for the essay will include:

1\) Title, topic and thesis question or area of interest for potential
research. [Preapproved topics and approaches are
here.](https://bit.ly/3210ChatGPT)

2\) One dominant approach to study the issue. [A complete list is
available here.](https://bit.ly/3210ChatGPT) The dominant approach will
provide the explanatory foundation of the thesis, more than one approach
can be used, but the primary approach should be linked to the
explanatory assertion of the thesis (i.e. Canada\'s participation in
**Afghanistan** can *primarily* be explained by an **American Empire**
approach).

3\) Three key distinct arguments with evidence in support of the thesis.
Remember to follow the paragraph structure in the course outline. The
data should primarily come from course readings, the pre-approved
suggested readings, and the suggested textbooks. Students must engage
with at least three course texts to complete the assignment, and the
majority (75%+) of your academic sources should come from the required
and optional readings in the course outline.

4\) A conclusion that mirrors your title, topic and thesis question. It
is always a good idea to rewrite your introduction after you have
written your conclusion. Your conclusion should provide the clear
foundation that you have established throughout the essay, to
demonstrate the validity of your thesis. Therefore, your thesis and your
conclusion should match one another. Failure to have consistent
argumentation will result in the inability to achieve full grades.

5\) Properly cited research. In text citation is preferred (author date
system, as outlined below in 'guidelines for success in class). There
should be no proxy urls (https://www.lib.uwo.ca/) no search urls
(http://search.proquest.com/scholarly-journals/) or Dropbox urls
(https://www.dropbox.com/). Citations need to be consistently formatted,
readily available, in English, with precise page numbers (no inclusion
of p.23-44, or consistent citation across pages (i.e. p.118-119). Lack
of data is a lack of foundation. In the era of LLMs, inaccurate
citations will be treated as no citation at all. LLMs routinely
summarize sources without accessing the underlying data. Failure to
directly quote sources with quotation marks followed by an explanation
in your own words will constitute a lack of sufficient citation.
Paraphrasing is no longer sufficient justification for including a
citation; **you must use specific and precise language, including nouns
(specific people, places, and things),** as generalized summaries of
sources are often hallucinated, inaccurate, and incomplete when
suggested by LLMs.

6\) A title page with your name, *a title for your paper that reflects
the thesis and topic of your paper*, the date of submission and the
course number on it. If you cannot clearly and simply identify the title
and topic of your paper, it is often an indicator of a lack of focus.

Papers submitted before the deadline can revise and resubmit the
assignment. For details on revision and resubmission see the 'revise and
resubmit' tab in OWL.

The Department's rules regarding plagiarism and the submission of
similar essays to two or more different instructors are appended to this
course outline and should be noted. (See 'Criteria for Evaluation of
Written Assignments' below). Students must submit their papers through
OWL/Brightspace and all papers may be processed by turnitin. Papers
submitted after deadlines (including excused late papers) will be
marked, but comments will not be provided.

## Summative Assignment 10% (if chosen)

Due at the end of Week 11 (December 8, 2025, 11:59 PM. Minimum 2500
words required. The summative assignment is only available to students
who have completed a minimum of 2000 words of weekly responses
throughout the course. If chosen, students must also write the 40% in
person final exam. The summative assessment follows the guidelines of
the weekly participation final calculation. It must include every weekly
participation submission as well as a short 250-500 word reflective
summary demonstrating clear engagement with course materials throughout
the course as well as reflection and development of critical thinking
throughout the course. It is not available to students who complete less
than 2000 words of written work in their weekly participation.

## Final Exam 

15 or 40% of final course grade (depending on course options chosen).
For those who choose the essay or policy analysis the exam is worth 15%.
For those who choose the summative assignment the final exam is worth
40% and must be written in person. To be scheduled during the exam
period. The final exam will be cumulative (i.e., will be based on the
material covered in lectures, assigned readings, and discussions
throughout the whole of the course). The exam may include both a short
answer/identification component and questions requiring longer,
essay-style responses. Choice of answers and an exam preparation guide
may be given.

# Learning Outcomes

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Assignment       Description               Learning Outcome
  ---------------- ------------------------- -----------------------------
  Participation                              Recognize the importance of
                                             listening; communicate
                                             verbally and in analytic and
                                             clear fashion; an awareness
                                             of the extensive and limits
                                             of one's own knowledge,
                                             informed by exposure to
                                             information, concepts,
                                             theories and experience

  Response Papers  Identify key themes and   Communicate in written form
                   arguments in written      in an analytical and clear
                   work, synthesize          fashion; an awareness of the
                   arguments analytically    extensive and limits of one's
                   into written form         own knowledge; assess
                                             evidence critically;

  Essay/Policy     Ability to identify       Communicate in written form
  Analysis         different methodological  in an analytical and clear
                   approaches; apply a       fashion; situate knowledge
                   specific methodological   historically and
                   approach to a specific    contextually; assess evidence
                   Canada-US issue; analyze  critically; well-developed
                   the Canada-US issue for   research skills
                   trajectory; evaluate      
                   likely outcomes of the    
                   issue                     

  Group            Ability to identify       Critically assess each
  Presentations    different methodological  other's arguments for
                   approaches; apply a       validity in terms of Canada
                   specific methodological   US relations; gain a basic
                   approach to a specific    understanding of the academic
                   Canada-US issue; analyze  editing process; work with
                   the Canada-US issue for   peers to develop strong
                   trajectory; evaluate      arguments about Canada US
                   likely outcomes of the    relations
                   issue                     

  Exam                                       Communicate in a written
                                             format in an analytical and
                                             clear fashion; situate
                                             knowledge historically and
                                             contextually; assess evidence
                                             critically; how power culture
                                             and history condition
                                             knowledge formation;
                                             understand the ambiguity,
                                             uncertainty, ubiquitous and
                                             controversial nature of
                                             politics
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Zoom Etiquette (for office hours) 

1.  Please pay attention to video, microphone and screensharing
    settings. Keep chat rooms and images appropriate for an academic
    setting. Any inappropriate actions, imagery, discussion or chat
    messages may result in your removal from the meeting at my
    discretion. Audio recordings may be available as an alternative to
    synchronous discussion.

2.  Please test all WIFI, video and audio before the meetings. Zoom
    buttons for raising your hand, responding yes and no, asking host to
    adjust speed, requesting a break and more.

3.  Please be conscious of your speaking time and that of others, if you
    are continuing in a manner that is not fair to your peers, I reserve
    the right to intervene and put us back on a more focused discussion.

# Recording synchronous content (office hours or other meetings)

Any remote learning sessions for this course **may** be recorded. The
data captured during these recordings may include your image, voice
recordings, chat logs and personal identifiers (name displayed on the
screen). The recordings may be used for educational purposes related to
this course, including evaluations. The recordings may be disclosed to
other individuals participating in the course for their private or group
study purposes. Please contact the instructor if you have any concerns
related to session recordings. Participants in this course are not
permitted to record the sessions, except where recording is an approved
accommodation, or the participant has the prior written permission of
the instructor.

# Meeting the Requirements of the Assignment: 

All written work must be submitted on time, must be of the appropriate
length, must use the required number and type of resources, and, most
importantly, must address the issues or questions posed in the
assignment. All work must have sufficient academic content and sources
related to our course or else it cannot receive full marks.

# Statement on Academic Offences

Scholastic offences are taken seriously and students are directed to
read the appropriate policy, specifically, the definition of what
constitutes a Scholastic Offence, at the following Web site:

<https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/scholastic_discipline_undergrad.pdf>
.

"All required papers may be subject to submission for textual similarity
review to the commercial plagiarism detection software under license to
the University for the detection of plagiarism. All papers submitted for
such checking will be included as source documents in the reference
database for the purpose of detecting plagiarism of papers subsequently
submitted to the system. Use of the service is subject to the licensing
agreement, currently between The University of Western Ontario and
Turnitin.com (http://www.turnitin.com )."

# Guidelines for Success in Class

Since there seldom are definitive answers to the questions, we will be
asking about Canadian-US relations, and much of what you will learn in
this course will be enhanced by the ideas and perspectives of your
colleagues. But for this to work, everyone must participate fully and
constructively. Be mindful of the following points, and you will be
successful:

1.  • Come to all classes having read the assigned readings for that
    week and prepared to participate in discussion. It is useful to
    remember that some week's readings may be more relevant to your
    research interests than others and focusing on readings that are
    most salient to your interests will ensure maximum usefulness in the
    course.

    • Participate in discussions, but do not over-participate. Everyone
    must be given an opportunity to take part in discussions.
    Constructive participation involves the raising of *relevant* points
    and ideas. Online participation will be considered as well in
    participation marks.

    • Demonstrate respect for the ideas presented by others at all
    times. This is essential to open discussion and the free exchange of
    ideas. This does not mean that you must agree with others. Informal
    debate will teach you even more about your own position while
    simultaneously exposing you to different viewpoints. Make use of
    such opportunities, but no disrespectful behavior will be tolerated.

    • Raise questions when you have them. Raising useful questions
    counts as participation. You can use the online forums, email,
    Facebook or zoom to raise questions you encounter throughout the
    course. Uncertainties are usually shared by others -- when you raise
    your questions in class everyone learns while you build your own
    participation grade. The forums should be the primary location for
    questions, please only use the other options AFTER you have posted
    to the forum.

# Criteria for Evaluation of Written Assignments 

These criteria will be used in evaluation of written work. Please be
sure to read them carefully.

## Paragraph structure 

Basic paragraph structure is an important part of writing. Failure to
use basic paragraph structure will result in repetitive, unstructured,
illogical arguments. Paragraphs help to structure our thought, our
ability to make claims and provide a framework for writing. The topic
sentence and concluding sentence of each paragraph should be in your own
voice (no direct references, quotations or citations). A basic paragraph
structure should follow this template:

- Topic/introduction, in one or two sentences

- Major point with evidence one or two sentences (one sentence with
  academic citation and one sentence explaining the relevance in your
  own words)

- Major point with evidence one or two sentences (one sentence with
  academic citation and one sentence explaining the relevance in your
  own words)

- Major point with evidence one or two sentences (one sentence with
  academic citation and one sentence explaining the relevance in your
  own words)

- Summarizing sentence of overall significance to the overarching thesis
  of the paper and

- Concluding sentence which restates topic sentence and bridges to next
  paragraph.

Failure to use basic paragraph structure throughout your work will
result in the inability to receive full marks.

These paragraph formatting requirements are not arbitrary. There is a
specific reason that I want you to use peer-reviewed academic sources, a
MINIMUM of THREE DIFFERENT ACADEMIC SOURCES per paragraph. WHY?

- First, the difference between opinion and argument is the provision of
  evidence.

- Second, for an academic argument to have veracity, it needs to have an
  arm\'s length perspective, it needs to draw on peer-reviewed sources
  because individual interpretation is prone to error.

- Next, if we have more than one academic source per paragraph if one of
  those sources is weak or questionable the other two will supplement
  it.

- Moreover, multiple sources prevent summary or representation of
  someone else\'s ideas as your own, if you must interpret multiple data
  sources.

- Finally, academic sources have explanatory frameworks that link them
  to underlying theoretical concepts and ideas. News sources, data
  points, and journalism provide evidence without analysis, academic
  work provides analysis with evidence. If you don\'t have that
  consistently throughout your writing, you are going to run into
  problems of the veracity of your claims because they lack
  substantiation.

## Formatting

All work should be double spaced using 12-point font (even on policy
briefs). Page numbers should always be included. Never use bullet points
anywhere -- they condense ideas when I need to see the logic and
academic argumentation that underpin your claims.

## Quotations

Quotations longer than 4 lines should be indented. Try to avoid
quotations longer than 4 lines. Assume that I do not read an indented
4line quotation and make sure the sentence immediately following the
quotation summarizes its significance to your argument in your own
words. Never include quotations or sources in your introduction or
conclusion, your introduction and conclusion should outline the paper
structure in your own words.

## Citations and Bibliography

We will use the author date system. It keeps footnotes and endnotes to a
minimum.

- Text references will be short with the Surname, Date and page number
  (i.e. Žižek 2002: 342).

- Use this formatting everywhere, including sources from our reading
  list and in the response papers and any written work.

- Works by the same author in the same year should be cited as Žižek
  2002a, Žižek2002b, etc.

- Et al. can be used by sources with three or more authors. The full
  list must be in the bibliography.

- If you have more than one source in the same sentence you just include
  them with a semi-colon in chronological order i.e (Žižek 2002: 345;
  D'Amelio 2018: 212; Swift 2020: 445)

If any of your sentences, paragraphs, or quotations lack a specific
foundation, you will not receive credit for those submissions.

Lack of data is a lack of foundation. In the era of LLMs, inaccurate
citations will be treated as no citation at all. LLMs routinely
summarize sources without accessing the underlying data. **Failure to
directly quote sources with quotation marks followed by an explanation
in your own words will constitute a lack of sufficient citation.**
**Paraphrasing is no longer sufficient justification for including a
citation**; you must use specific and precise language, including nouns
(specific people, places, and things), as generalized summaries of
sources are often hallucinated, inaccurate, and incomplete when
suggested by LLMs.

## Bibliography (style: Modified Harvard) 

> A bibliography must be included in all written work, it should include
> the complete details of the work and included an 'Accessed' date if it
> is an online source.
>
> Sample bibliography
>
> Bastos, Marco T., and Dan Mercea. \"The Brexit botnet and
> user-generated hyperpartisan news.\" Social Science Computer Review
> 37.1 (2019): 38-54.
>
> Dobber, T., R. F. Fahy, and FJ Zuiderveen Borgesius. \"The regulation
> of online political micro-targeting in Europe.\" Internet Policy
> Review 8.4 (2019): 4.
>
> Grieder, William. "How the swindlers of Silicon Valley avoid paying
> taxes." The Nation, October 17, 2017,
> <https://www.thenation.com/article/how-the-swindlers-of-silicon-valley-avoid-paying-taxes/>.
> Accessed August 1, 2020.
>
> Gill, Stephen. \"Transnational class formations, European crisis and
> the silent revolution.\" Critical Sociology 43.4-5 (2017): 641.

## Analytical Content and Paragraph structure:

Higher grades will be given to work that demonstrates the ability to
interpret, critically assess and develop insights of the material. To
determine whether or not your argument is analytical, ask yourself \"Am
I demonstrating to the reader my insights in an academic way?" If you
are simply summarizing or describing in detail phenomena, your work is
unlikely to have high analytical content.

> *Helpful signs you are not developing analytical content: Excessive
> quotes; beginning or ending a paragraph with a quote; short (fewer
> than 4 sentences) paragraphs; no sources in a long paragraph; lack of
> similar argument in introduction and conclusion.*

## Development of an Argument:

Higher grades will be given to work that has a clearly stated argument
and a set of logically developed and reasonably comprehensive points in
support of that argument. Academic arguments need not be personal
(though in certain instances they can be -- check with the instructor),
rather they demonstrate the logical progression of the position you are
developing. The key here is to attempt to convince your reader of the
soundness or feasibility of your argument. Nuanced arguments recognize
obvious criticisms and seek to address them logically. Consistency of an
argument throughout a paper is important.

> *Helpful signs your argument may be in trouble: Using the same author
> or quote more than a few times in successive paragraphs; your
> introduction and conclusion are not similar; you introduce material in
> the introduction and the conclusion that cannot be found elsewhere;
> you have quotes in your conclusion; your attempt to address obvious
> criticisms contradicts your thesis, you adopt multiple theoretical
> frameworks; you cannot find any sources that agree with your central
> claims.*

## Grammar, Spelling, and Style: 

Higher grades will be given to written work that is grammatically
correct and is clearly and accurately written, while lower grades will
be given to work that is difficult to read or understand due to
excessive grammatical and/or spelling errors.

> *While different approaches work for different people, it is
> recommended that you try the following every time you have a written
> assignment: after completing your assignment, put it away for a while
> (ideally, for a few days); when you pick it up again, read it
> carefully, slowly, and aloud (when we are familiar with a paper we
> tend to skim it during proof-reading, thereby missing errors -- so
> make sure you are reading it word for word). Mistakes in grammar may
> not always look wrong, but they usually sound wrong. If you need some
> help with writing style or grammar, there are many resources available
> on campus.*

# General

All students must complete all course requirements. Failure to do so
(e.g., by not handing-in an assignment or by missing an examination
without due cause) will subject the student to the appropriate
University regulations. Students must also keep a duplicate copy of
their assignments.

## Policy on communication

The forums should be your primary place for questions, issues and
concerns with the course. I strive to be accessible and responsive to
student inquiries. However, repeated or persistent e-mails/texts/phone
calls will overload my capacity to respond to all students equally. As
such, I reserve the right to answer initial questions but forego
multiple responses or inquires for a 24hour cool-down period. I
appreciate your understanding in this matter.

## Policy on Children in the classroom[^1] 

"It is my belief that if we want women in academia, that we should also
expect children to be present in some form. Currently, the university
does not have a formal policy on children in the classroom. The policy
described here is thus, a reflection of my own beliefs and commitments
to student, staff and faculty parents.

All exclusively breastfeeding babies are welcome in class as often as is
necessary to support the breastfeeding relationship. Because not all
women can pump sufficient milk, and not all babies will take a bottle
reliably, I never want students to feel like they have to choose between
feeding their baby and continuing their education. You and your nursing
baby are welcome in class anytime.

For older children and babies, I understand that minor illnesses and
unforeseen disruptions in childcare often put parents in the position of
having to choose between missing class to stay home with a child and
leaving him or her with someone you or the child does not feel
comfortable with. While this is not meant to be a long-term childcare
solution, occasionally bringing a child to class in order to cover gaps
in care is perfectly acceptable.

I ask that all students work with me to create a welcoming environment
that is respectful of all forms of diversity, including diversity in
parenting status.

In all cases where babies and children come to class, I ask that you sit
close to the door so that if your little one needs special attention and
is disrupting learning for other students, you may step outside until
their need has been met. Non-parents in the class, please reserve seats
near the door for your parenting classmates.

Finally, I understand that often the largest barrier to completing your
coursework once you become a parent is the tiredness many parents feel
in the evening once children have finally gone to sleep. The struggles
of balancing school, childcare and often another job are exhausting! I
hope that you will feel comfortable disclosing your student-parent
status to me. This is the first step in my being able to accommodate any
special needs that arise. While I maintain the same high expectations
for all student in my classes regardless of parenting status, I am happy
to problem solve with you in a way that makes you feel supported as you
strive for school-parenting balance. Thank you for the diversity you
bring to our classroom!"

## Policy on non-service animals in the classroom 

Western University established a [Pets and Therapy Animals policy in May
2020](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/policies_procedures/section1/mapp156.pdf)
that limits the presence of pets in campus buildings. Service and
therapy animals are permitted inside all Western locations, in
accordance with accessibility policies, however animals for
companionship are not allowed.

## Point of View

The readings, class lectures, and my comments in class will suggest a
particular point of view. This perspective is my own and does not have
to be yours! I encourage you to disagree with the ideas in the readings
and lectures as well as the perspectives of your colleagues in the
course. Please express yourself! A significant part of a university
education is learning about the complexity of various issues; therefore,
it is important that we listen and respect one another but we do not
have to agree. A richer discussion will occur when a variety of
perspectives are presented in class for discussion.

## Academic Sources

A key aspect of the university experience is developing your ability to
assess the validity of sources. Academic sources such as those found on
Google Scholar should be your primary source of arguments, ideas and
claims made in the course. While it may be appropriate to provide
anecdotal, non-academic, news, theories from outside the academy as data
points, all arguments must be situated in triangulated academic
research. By triangulation (you may see a ∆ on your assignments) this is
the idea that academic peer review provides a foundation for the
veracity of the claims being made. if you rely too heavily on one source
(i.e. that more than 3 footnotes in a row are from the same source ) you
may be veering towards summary or plagiarism of that source as it lacks
proper verification from other academics who agree with those
assessments . Moreover, most sources have implicit or explicit
frameworks, understandings, biases which you may not be able to assess
without triangulation. While there is no explicit number of sources
required on assignments, you will be unable to achieve full marks if you
do not have academic arguments with academic sources. This is a standard
expectation of all assignments in this class.

## Discussion Guidelines[^2]

In our structured and unstructured discussions and dialogues, we also
will have many opportunities to explore some challenging, high-stakes
issues and increase our understandings of different perspectives. Our
conversations may not always be easy; we sometimes will make mistakes in
our speaking and our listening; sometimes we will need patience or
courage or imagination or any number of qualities in combination to
engage our texts, our classmates, and our own ideas and experiences.
Always we will need respect for others. Thus, an important secondary aim
of our course necessarily will be for us to increase our facility with
the sometimes-difficult conversations that arise inside issues of social
inequality as we deepen our understandings of multiple perspectives --
whatever our backgrounds, experiences, or positions.

## Contingency plan for an in-person class pivoting to 100% online learning

In the event of a COVID-19 resurgence during the course that
necessitates the course delivery moving away from face-to-face
interaction, affected course content will be delivered entirely online,
either synchronously (i.e., at the times indicated in the timetable) or
asynchronously (e.g., posted on OWL for students to view at their
convenience). The grading scheme will not change. Any remaining
assessments will also be conducted online as determined by the course
instructor.

## Policy on the use of LLMs (AI, ChatGPT, Bard, etc) in the classroom [^3]

Unless otherwise noted during class activities, you may only use ChatGPT
or any other Generative technology to *aid* or *nuance* your thinking,
communication, and learning; but not to *replace* or *subvert* it. See
the table below for some examples of allowable and non-allowable uses of
Generative technology in this class (NOTE: This is not an exhaustive
list of examples). Generative technology may be used to assist in
assessment throughout the course, if you wish to opt out of the use of
generative technology, please let me know.

How generative technology may be used in assessment:

1\. Pre-assessment - to provide structural or overall feedback before I
begin any grading.

2\. Applying rubric - using the rubric from the course outline to apply
to submitted assignments to assess the degree of compliance before or
during I complete any grading.

3\. During assessment - to double-check the veracity of claims being
made about your submission during my assessment of your material.

4\. Post assessment - to find additional examples or instances in your
submissions to assist in my feedback.

5\. Refining assessment - suggesting forms of constructive criticism,
actionable items, and overarching themes or issues to assist in your
assessment.

6\. Checking for unauthorized AI use, following University guidelines
(and those attached below).

How generative technology will NOT be used in assessment:

No grades will be assigned solely with generative technology at any
point in this course. Assessment will always be done by the instructor
in accordance with the course outlines, because of the unpredictability
and unreliability of current generative technology.

No personal or individual identifiers will ever be included in the
assessment of material by any generative technology.

+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Example of   | **Why is this Allowed?**                                                                                                 | **Things to Keep in Mind**                                                        |
| an Allowable   |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| Use**          |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Prompting      | This might enhance your thinking by **exposing you to other ideas** than you might come up with on your own.             | It is important to start with **brainstorming your own ideas first** (to aid your |
| Generative     |                                                                                                                          | creative thinking), rather than letting Generative technology do that initial     |
| technology to  |                                                                                                                          | work for you. Also, beware that Generative technology might introduce biases      |
| **generate**   |                                                                                                                          | (tends towards liberal consensus) into the topic when prompted to generate ideas. |
| **ideas** for  |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| a class        |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| project.       |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Using          | Generative technology writing technologies, like ChatGPT, can provide ideas for how to revise a sentence or word, begin  | Make sure to **get your [thoughts written down                                    |
| Generative     | a paragraph, or express your thinking more clearly. Used in this way, Generative technology might support the            | first](https://www.criticalinkling.com/p/pedagogy-thinking-and-the-first-draft)** |
| technology for | development of your communication skills.                                                                                | rather than asking Generative technology to write the first draft. Writing and    |
| writing        |                                                                                                                          | thinking are interconnected processes, if you prompt Generative technology to     |
| support (e.g., |                                                                                                                          | write the first draft for you, you are not actively engaging in thinking about    |
| to improve     |                                                                                                                          | the material.                                                                     |
| **writing      |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| quality,       |                                                                                                                          | NOTE: We also have a wonderful [Writing Center on                                 |
| clarity, and   |                                                                                                                          | campus](https://writing.uwo.ca/) that provides writing support!                   |
| expression**). |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Using          | Generative technology can offer study tips, provide example text/quiz practice questions, design a personalized study    | Generative technology tools are known for making up information and presenting    |
| Generative     | guide, design flashcards, give directions for how to complete an assignment, create learning simulations and interactive | biased output. Make sure to double-check the accuracy, credibility, and           |
| technology as  | scenarios to help you think more deeply about the class content, and provide a rubric so you can self-assess your own    | reliability of any AI-generated information that you use to support your studying |
| a **study or   | work.                                                                                                                    | or assignment completion.                                                         |
| assignment     |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| aid.**         |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Prompting      | Generative technology could potentially be used in ways that reduce cognitive load (see [Cognitive Load                  | If Generative technology are used in ways that reduce [germane                    |
| Generative     | Theory](https://www.mcw.edu/-/media/MCW/Education/Academic-Affairs/OEI/Faculty-Quick-Guides/Cognitive-Load-Theory.pdf)), | load](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0747563224002541) (the   |
| technology to  | such as breaking material into smaller chunks, summarizing and simplifying material, providing an outline of an article  | cognitive effort required to make connections between new information and prior   |
| help **make    | to support pre-reading, translating text into your native language, making content more accessible, scaffolding          | knowledge) it can negatively impact learning. For example, if you ask a           |
| information    | learning, and providing concrete examples.                                                                               | Generative technology technology to automatically summarize a complex academic    |
| easier to      |                                                                                                                          | article instead of reading and summarizing it yourself, you will miss out on the  |
| understand**   |                                                                                                                          | opportunity to fully engage with, and critically examine, the author's ideas      |
| (e.g.,         |                                                                                                                          | (read: [No One is Talking About AI\'s Impact on                                   |
| explaining     |                                                                                                                          | Reading](https://marcwatkins.substack.com/p/no-one-is-talking-about-ais-impact)). |
| technical or   |                                                                                                                          | This is a critical skill for college, the workplace, and engaged citizenship!     |
| academic       |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| jargon,        |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| providing      |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| concrete       |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| examples of an |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| abstract       |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| idea).         |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Using AI and   | Generative technology can be used to make learning more accessible and digitally accessible for differently abled        | If you have a self-identified or registered disability, consider how Generative   |
| Generative     | individuals (e.g., transcripts of recorded audio, closed captions for videos, alt text to describe images for            | technology tools might aid your thinking, communication, and learning.            |
| technology is  | blind/visually impaired individuals, interpretations of complex visual data).                                            |                                                                                   |
| recommended    |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| **due to       |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| different      |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| abilities.**   |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

  ------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Example of a     **Why is this NOT Allowed?**
  Non-Allowable      
  Use**              

  Prompting a        Discussion prompts are meant to incorporate your voice and your thoughts. Participating in discussions is about building
  Generative         community and relationships as well as actively engaging in your own thinking and learning to communicate with others. Using
  technology         Generative technology for this activity subverts both the social and learning goals of the activity.
  technology to      
  **respond to a     
  discussion forum   
  prompt** for you.  

  Using a Generative Designing a presentation requires you to actively engage in thinking and learning about the material and consider how best
  technology         to communicate that information to an audience. Prompting Generative technology to do this work for you subverts your
  technology (e.g.,  learning and the opportunity to develop your creative communication skills.
  Slidesgo) to       
  **design a class   
  presentation** for 
  you.               

  Modifying          Making minor adjustments to AI-generated work only supports surface-level learning, rather than deep learning ([learn
  AI-generated work  more](https://www.psy.gla.ac.uk/~steve/courses/archive/CERE12-13-safari-archive/topic9/webarchive-index.html)), because the
  slightly to **make focus is on minor adjustments rather than truly understanding the material.
  it appear as if    
  you created it**.  

  Prompting          Research has shown that using Generative technology to provide solutions for you (or in this case, provide data analysis
  Generative         output for you) prevents you from actively engaging with, and learning, the material (read: [Generative AI Can Harm
  technology to      Learning](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4895486&utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email)). Using
  **analyze data for Generative technology in this way subverts your learning. Additionally, Generative technology tools are not calculators or
  you** and          math machines, they are predictability machines (they guess which words go together to make the most plausible
  submitting the     human-sounding response).
  data analysis as   
  your own.          

  Copying            Please read "[The Case For Not Citing Chatbots As Information
  AI-generated text  Sources](https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2024/06/20/the-case-for-not-citing-chatbots-as-information-sources-part-ii/)"
  word for word into and "[Generative AI Has an Intellectual Property
  your written work, Problem](https://hbr.org/2023/04/generative-ai-has-an-intellectual-property-problem)" and, instead, find an original source
  but **citing it as to cite. When you put in the effort to find an original source to cite, you are deepening your thinking and learning about
  written by AI**.   that topic and you are giving credit to human authors/artists.
  ------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You are responsible for the information you submit based on an AI query
(for instance, that it does not violate intellectual property laws, or
contain misinformation or unethical content). Any assignment that is
found to have used generative AI tools in unauthorized ways can result
in: a failure to receive full grades, the need to resubmit the
assignment, need to orally present the assignment in office hours, or a
failure to complete the requirements of the course. When in doubt about
permitted usage, please ask for clarification.

**Reading Schedule (readings with ● are required -- other readings
provide background and information for essays, presentations, and
research)**

Week 1 - Intro and Overview

- Bow, Brian, and Adam Chapnick. \"Teaching Canada--US relations: Three
  great debates.\" International Journal 71.2 (2016): 291-312.

- Andrews, Jennifer. \"Introduction---Fantasies of Nation: Canada-US
  Relations in the Era of Trump.\" (2018): 1-8.

- Bissonnette, T. "You Have No Idea How Furious the Canadians Are."
  Intelligencer, New York Magazine, July 14, 2025. Accessed July
  15, 2025.
  <https://nymag.com/intelligencer/article/canadians-join-the-us-trump-america-canada-reaction.html>

Suggested readings:

Brawn, A. (2025, July). How to fight back: Trump's tariff war was a
wake-up call for Canada to abandon its gentle complacency and take some
big swings. Here are eight gutsy, radical ideas to secure the nation's
future. Maclean's. Retrieved from Maclean's website

Ettinger, Aaron. \"Rumors of restoration: Joe Biden's foreign policy and
what it means for Canada.\" Canadian Foreign Policy Journal (2021):
1-18.

George, Douglas, et al. \"Distinguished Panel: The Canada-United States
Relationship at Large.\" Can.-USLJ 42 (2018): 42.

Sample paper from 2022 Rachel Rajaratnam \" the war against liberal
democracy: and exploration of right-wing extremism in Canada and the
US\" submitted for POLS 3210 2022. Unpublished essay. Made available
with the permission of Rachel Rajaratnam.\
\
Student Paper from 2013-2014 - Chelsea Rubin \"Sexual Regulation,
Repression, and National Security: LGBT Rights and the National Security
Discourse of Canada and the United States \" Submitted for POLS 3326
2013-2014. Unpublished Essay. Made available with permission of Chelsea
Rubin.

Week 1 Questions for response papers:

- What is the best level of analysis for looking at Canada-US relations
  today versus the past?

- Which \'great debate\' makes the most sense to you?

- What question about the course seems most pressing to you?

Week 2 - Overviews and Attitudes

- Norman Hillmer, Are Canadians Anti-American? Policy Options
  (July/August, 2006). 3 pages

- John McDougall, Canada-U.S. Relations at the Turn of the Century, Ch.
  2.

- Trevor Harrison, \"Anti-Canadianism explaining the deep roots of a
  shallow phenomenon\" International Journal of Canadian Studies No. 35,
  2007 , pages. 217-240.

Examine recent framings of the Canada-US relationship by the
Congressional Research Service
<https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R47620>

<https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF12595>

Debate topic: What's the right amount of gun control?

Week 2 Questions for response papers:

- To what extent is Canada autonomous from the US?

- In what ways does \'closeness\' make genuine Canada-US assessment
  impossible?

- Should we understand the Canada-US relationship in terms of positivity
  or negativity?

Week 3 - NAFTA - Origins and Frameworks

- Geoffrey Hale, "Introduction, the Elephant and the Beaver: Proximity
  and Distance in Perspective" in So Near Yet So Far, 2012 UBC Press:
  Vancouver, 1-24.

John McDougall, Drifting Together: The Political Economy of Canada-US
Integration Peterborough, ON.: Broadview Press, 2006. Ch 3,4.

- Barry, Donald, and Duane Bratt. \"Defense Against Help: Explaining
  Canada-US Security Relations.\" American Review of Canadian Studies
  38.1 (2008): 63-89.

Stephen Clarkson, "The Choice to be Made," in Readings in Canadian
Foreign Policy: Classic Debates and New Ideas Eds., Duane Bratt and
Chris Kukucha (Toronto: Oxford University Press, 2011) Third Edition. P.
76-91. Updated material for 2015

Lilly, Meredith, Hugo Perezcano Díaz, and Christine McDaniel. \"The
Future of North America's Economic Relationship: From NAFTA to the New
Canada-United States-Mexico Agreement and Beyond.\" (2019).

Debate topic: Do we need a CBC?

Week 3 Questions for response papers:

- Who has the most to lose in NAFTA renegotiations?

- Does NAFTA benefit North America? How?

- How should NAFTA be viewed historically?

- To what extent is the Canada-US relationship cultural?

- Are metaphors a strength or weakness in Social Science analysis?

- Can Canadian scholars examine Canada-US relations in a way not
  compromised by nationalism and patriotism?

Week 4 - How are policies coordinated?

Naomi Black, "Absorptive Systems Are Impossible: the Canadian-American
Relationship as a Disparate Dyad," in Andrew Axline, James Hyndman,
Peyton Lyon and Maureen Appel Molot eds., Continental Community?
Independence and Integration in North America (Toronto: McClelleand and
Stewart,1974): 92-110.

- Jonathan Kent, \"Border Bargains and the \"New\" Sovereignty:
  Canada-US Border Policies from 2001 to 2005 in Perspective\"
  Geopolitics Vol. 16, Iss. 4, 2011

- Dan Bousfield. \"Canadian Foreign Policy in an Era of New
  Constitutionalism\" American Review of Canadian Studies, Vol 43. Issue
  3, 2013.

Debate topic: When are leaders' dog whistling?

Relevant reading: López, Ian Haney. Dog whistle politics: How coded
racial appeals have reinvented racism and wrecked the middle class.
Oxford University Press, 2015. Intro, Ch 6, 8.

Week 4 Questions for response papers:

- In what areas is autonomy important for policy creation?

- In what areas do Canada and the US need better policy coordination?

- What is the trajectory of Canada US policy coordination?

Week 5 - Leadership and Prime Minister-President Dynamics

- Sinclair, Amanda. \"Doing leadership differently.\" Victoria:
  Melbourne University Press (1998). CHAPTER 1

- Grant, Lament for a Nation: The defeat of Canadian Nationalism
  (Ottawa: Carleton University Press, 1965). Ch 1 and 2.

- Azzi, Stephen. Reconcilable Differences: A History of Canada-US
  Relations. Oxford University Press, 2015. Chapter 9.

For reference:
<http://policyoptions.irpp.org/issues/canada-us-conversations-and-relations/us-presidents-and-canadian-prime-ministers-good-vibes-or-not/>

see other reference texts below

Arthurs, Harry W. \"The hollowing out of corporate Canada?.\"
Globalizing Institutions. Routledge, 2018. 29-51.

Laycock, David. \"Tax revolts, direct democracy and representation:
populist politics in the US and Canada.\" Journal of Political
Ideologies 24.2 (2019): 158-181.

Debate topic: What areas are most susceptible to cultural imperialism in
Canada?

Week 5 Questions for response papers:

- To what extent is leadership defined by community interests?

- What dynamics of leadership are influenced by nationhood?

- In what ways are Canada-US interactions dictated by leadership?

Week 6 - Border Issues and Border Management

- Geoffrey Hale "Smart Borders or Thicker Borders? Homeland Security and
  Public Safety Priorities" in So Near Yet So Far, 2012 UBC Press:
  Vancouver.

- Nicol, Heather N. The Fence and the Bridge: Geopolitics and Identity
  along the Canada--US Border. Wilfrid Laurier Univ. Press, 2015. CH 2.

Laura Madokoro, 'Belated Signing: Race-Thinking and Canada's Approach to
the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, in Madokoro,
McKenzie and Meren, eds, Dominion of Race, 2017.

Smith, Matthew J., et al. \"Long-term lessons on the effects of
post-9/11 border thickening on cross-border trade between Canada and the
United States: A systematic review.\" Transport Policy 72 (2018):
198-207.

Debate topic: Scrap the Safe Third-Party Agreement?

Week 6 Questions for response papers:

- What is more analytically useful: the concept of borders or the
  concept of borderlands?

- Can intelligence happen in a closed/classified environment? do we need
  an open source intelligence?

- What is the role of NORAD in the future?

Week 7 - Religion and Politics in Canada and the US

- David Rayside and Clyde Wilcox, Faith, Politics and Sexual Diversity
  in Canada and the United States. UBC Press:2011, Chapters, 1,5.

- Kinsman, Gary, and Patrizia Gentile. The Canadian war on queers:
  National security as sexual regulation. UBC Press, 2010. Chapter 1.

- Mead, Walter Russell. \"God\'s country.\" Foreign Aff. 85 (2006): 24.

- Freeland, Chrystia. \"Perspectives on Canada--Israel Relations.\"
  Israel Journal of Foreign Affairs 12.3 (2018): 367-371.

Beicken, Julie. \"The Rise and Fall of Moral Conflicts in the United
States and Canada.\" Social Forces (2019).

Smith, Miriam. \"Federalism and LGBT rights in the US and Canada: A
comparative policy analysis.\" Federalism, Feminism and Multilevel
Governance. Routledge, 2016. 97-110.

Debate topic: Canada: Lead or follow the US on Israel?

Week 7 Questions for response papers:

- To what extent is religious politics possible in Canada?

- What is the legacy of Christianity in Canada-US differences?

- In what ways are Canada-US interactions dictated by religion?

Week 8 - Canada-US defence dynamics -- Is Canada subject to American
imperialism?

- Elizabeth Smythe, "International Relations Theory and the Study of
  Canadian-American Relations" Canadian Journal of Political Science.
  Vol. 13. No. 1. Mar 1990.

J. Marshall Beier, \"Canada: Doubting Hephaestus\" Contemporary Security
Policy Vol. 26. Issue 3. (2005).

von Hlatky, Stéfanie, and H. Christian Breede. \"The cultural variable
in foreign and defence policy.\" Canadian Foreign Policy Journal 22.2
(2016): 103-107.

- Trudgen, Matthew. \"The key to the Canada--United States relationship:
  homeland and continental defence in American strategic culture.\"
  Canadian Foreign Policy Journal 22.2 (2016): 184-198.

Hataley, Todd, and Christian Leuprecht. \"Canada--US Security
Cooperation: Interests, Institutions, Identity and Ideas.\" Canada--US
Relations. Palgrave Macmillan, Cham, 2019. 87-104.

Pratt, Anna C. \"The Canada--US Shiprider Programme, Jurisdiction and
the Crime--Security Nexus.\" National Security, Surveillance and Terror.
Palgrave Macmillan, Cham, 2016. 249-272.

Debate topic: Scrap Saudi arms deals?

Week 8 Questions for response papers:

- Do horizontal or vertical dynamics define the Canada US relationship?

- To what extent is the world unipolar? What is Canada\'s role in a
  unipolar world?

- Does the loss of an interest in serving the Canadian public represent
  a fundamental and irrevocable failure of the Canadian state?

Week 9 - Federalism, Healthcare and Social Welfare in North America

- McDougal, \"Political integration in Europe and North America\",
  Chapter 6 and Chapter 7.

- Kukucha, Christopher J. \"Federalism matters: evaluating the impact of
  sub-federal governments in Canadian and American foreign trade
  policy.\" Canadian Foreign Policy Journal 21.3 (2015): 224-237.

- Folland, Sherman, Allen Charles Goodman, and Miron Stano. The
  Economics of Health and Health Care: Pearson International Edition. Ch
  22 Routledge, 2016. IGNORE THE CHINA SECTION.

Bryant, Toba, et al. \"Canada: a land of missed opportunity for
addressing the social determinants of health.\" Health policy 101.1
(2011): 44-58.

Armstrong-Hough, Mari. \"Origins of Difference: Professionalization,
Power, and Mental Hygiene in Canada and the United States.\" American
Review of Canadian Studies 45.2 (2015): 208-225.

Debate topic: Who is responsible for mental health?

Week 9 Questions for response papers:

- Has the history of Canada-US relations been primarily positive or
  negative?

- Is Canada losing a sense of nationalism?

- To what extent does Canada deserve American criticism?

Week 10 - The politics of Race in the Anglosphere

Walby, Kevin, and Jeffrey Monaghan. "Haitian Paradox" or Dark Side of
the Security-Development Nexus? Canada's Role in the Securitization of
Haiti, 2004--2009\" Alternatives: Global, Local, Political 36.4 (2011):
273-287

- Vucetic, Srdjan. The Anglosphere: A genealogy of a racialized identity
  in international relations. Stanford University Press, 2011. Chapter
  4,5 required. Chapters 1.

- Mills, Charles. \"White ignorance.\" Race and epistemologies of
  ignorance (2007): 17-38.

Mathieu, Sarah-Jane. North of the color line: Migration and Black
resistance in Canada, 1870-1955. Univ of North Carolina Press, 2010.
Introduction.

Donnermeyer, Joseph F., Walter S. DeKeseredy, and Molly Dragiewicz.
\"Policing rural Canada and the United States.\" Rural Policing and
Policing the Rural. Routledge, 2016. 37-46.

Debate topic: Should Canada ban Huawei?

Week 10 Questions for response papers:

- Can we explain Canada\'s role in Haiti\'s overthrow in traditional
  Canadian analysis?

- To what extent is the Anglosphere integral to Canada US security
  concerns?

- To what extent does race determine Canada US cooperation on military
  issues?

Week 11 - North American Energy Issues

- Geoffrey Hale and Monica Gattinger, Borders and Bridges: Canada's
  Policy Relations in North America. Oxford: 2010. Chapter 8.

- Stroup, Laura, Richard Kujawa, and Jeffrey Ayres. \"Envisioning a
  Green Energy Future in Canada and the United States: Constructing a
  Sustainable Future in the Context of New Regionalisms?.\" American
  Review of Canadian Studies 45.3 (2015): 299-314.

- Bousfield, Dan "Towards and North American Energy Bloc: the
  Geopolitical Implications of Market-Preserving Federalism" in Ovadia,
  Jesse Salah, and Tim Di Muzio, eds. Energy, Capitalism and World
  Order: Toward a New Agenda in International Political Economy.
  Springer, 2017.

DiMuzio, Tim. \"Capitalizing a future unsustainable: Finance, energy and
the fate of market civilization.\" Review of International Political
Economy 19.3 (2012): 363-388.

Fossum, John The OPEC Oil Crisis, Canada and the Federal Adjustment
Strategy in Fossum, Oil, the State and Federalism. UofT Press 1997

Debate topic: Build more pipelines?

Week 11 Questions for response papers:

- To what extent are Canada US futures determined by petro dependence?

- To what extent do changes in global oil prices impact the Canada US
  relationship?

- To what extent should the Canada US relationship be seen in terms of
  energy?

Week 12 - Where is the Arctic and what kind of sovereignty is it? - EXAM
REVIEW

- Barret Weber and Rob Shields \"The Virtual North: On The Boundaries of
  Sovereignty\" Ethnic and Racial Studies Vol 34. No. 1. January 2011.

- Arnold, S. (2012), Constructing an Indigenous Nordicity: The "New
  Partnership" and Canada's Northern Agenda. International Studies
  Perspectives, 13: 105--120.

Salter, Mark B. \"Arctic Security, Territory, Population: Canadian
Sovereignty and the International.\" International Political Sociology
(2019).

Donald McRae \"Rethinking the Arctic; A New Agenda for Canada and the
United States\" Canada Among Nations, 2009-2010: As Others See Us edited
by Fen Osler Hampson and Paul Heinbecker, Montreal and Kingston:
McGill-Queen\'s University Press, 2010.

Smith, Jeffrey J. \"A High Tide of Cooperation?: The Canada-United
States Joint Statement on the Arctic.\" Asia-Pacific Journal of Ocean
Law and Policy 2.1 (2017): 168-170.

For reference: James, Carolyn C., and Patrick James. \"Canada, the
United States and Arctic Sovereignty: Architecture Without Building?\"
American Review of Canadian Studies 44.2 (2014): 187-204.

Week 12 Questions for response papers:

- To what extent is sovereignty based on assertions and claims?

- To what extent is Canadian identity northern?

- What is the role of global warming in Arctic sovereignty?

<!-- -->

- To what extent does environmental stewardship require consistent
  environmental policy?

Policy on Academic Consideration -- Undergraduate Students (This policy
will be effective as of September 1, 2024)

**PURPOSE**

This policy sets out the parameters for students to be excused from
academic responsibilities for extenuating circumstances (i.e., personal
circumstances beyond the student's control that have a substantial but
temporary impact on the student's ability to meet essential academic
requirements). Students experiencing longer-term impacts on their
academic responsibilities should consult Accessible Education.

Students whose absence is directly related to a permanent or temporary
disability should seek reasonable accommodations through Accessible
Education (see policy on Academic Accommodation for Students with
Disabilities).

**STATEMENT OF PRINCIPLES**

This policy on academic considerations reflects the following principles
and aims:

- A consistent and fair approach and experience for all students seeking
  academic consideration.

- There is no expectation that a student must be in optimum physical or
  mental condition to carry out their academic responsibilities.

- A desire to empower students to take responsibility for their
  decisions about absences and missed work due to extenuating
  circumstances.

- Students must demonstrate mastery of the learning outcomes within
  their coursework (i.e., essential course requirements cannot be
  excused).

- A desire to provide a mechanism for facilitating student well-being
  and academic fairness while acknowledging the integrity of
  relationships and interactions that students have with individuals and
  services on campus. These may include faculty members, academic
  advisors, Accessible Education, Learning Development and Success,
  Health and Wellness Services and community healthcare professionals.

- Students, faculty, staff, and administrators are expected approach
  request academic consideration as being made and assessed in good
  faith, recognizing that evidence to the contrary (including false
  statements or altered forms or documents) may be liable to
  investigation as either a Scholastic Offense or a violation of the
  applicable Code of Student Conduct.

- Academic considerations must not place undue hardship on the course
  instructor.

- Instructors are encouraged to provide flexible assessments, and to
  include this information to students in the course outline.

**POLICY**

Requests for academic consideration are made to the Academic Advising
office of the student's Faculty of Registration.

Requests for academic consideration must include the following
components:

a\) Self-attestation signed by the student

b\) Indication of the course(s) and assessment(s) affected by the
request

c\) Supporting documentation as relevant

Requests without supporting documentation are limited to one per term
per course.

Instructors may designate one assessment per half-course weight as
requiring formal supporting documentation. In such cases, the instructor
must provide the student with another opportunity to demonstrate
proficiency in the content evaluated by the missed assessment, within
the time frame of the course.

Documentation for medical illness, when required, must include the
completion of a Western Student Medical Certificate (SMC) or, where that
is not possible, equivalent documentation, by a health care
practitioner.

Requests for examinations scheduled by the Office of the Registrar
during official examination periods typically scheduled in the last week
of the term [ALWAYS]{.underline} require formal supporting
documentation.

This policy does not apply to requests for academic considerations
submitted for attempted or completed work, whether online or in-person.
This includes (but is not limited to) term tests, performances,
presentations, and laboratory/tutorial sessions to which the student has
reported. Requests for retroactive relief are addressed in the
Undergraduate Student Academic Appeals policy.

Students must request academic consideration as soon as possible and no
later than 48 hours after the missed assessment.

Once the request and supporting documents have been received and
reviewed, appropriate academic consideration, if granted, shall be
determined by the instructor in consultation with the academic advisor,
in a manner consistent with the course outline.

Academic consideration may include extension of deadlines, waiver of
attendance requirements for classes/labs/tutorials, or re-weighting of
course requirements.

Some forms of academic consideration, such as arranging Special
Examinations, assigning a grade of Incomplete, or granting late
withdrawals without academic penalty, [may only be granted by the
Academic Advising office of the Faculty of Registration]{.underline}.

An instructor may deny academic consideration for any assessment that is
not required in the calculation of the final grade (e.g., "8 of 10
quizzes"). **This assessment flexibility must be indicated on the course
outline.**

An instructor may deny academic consideration relating to the timeframe
submission of work where there is already flexibility in the submission
timeframe (e.g., 72-hour submission window). **This assessment
flexibility must be indicated on the course outline.**

**Appeals**

A student may appeal a decision on academic consideration made by the
Dean's Office of the student's Faculty of Registration to the Senate
Review Board Academic (SRBA) as set out in the Undergraduate Student
Academic Appeals policy.

APPENDIX TO UNDERGRADUATE COURSE OUTLINES DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL
SCIENCE
<https://politicalscience.uwo.ca/undergraduate/docs/outlines/2025-26/APPENDIX%20TO%20UNDERGRADUATE%20COURSE%20OUTLINES1.pdf>

Other relevant links:

[Requests for Relief from Academic
Decisions](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/requests_for_relief_from_academic_decisions.pdf)

[Undergraduate
Procedures](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/undergrad_requests_for_relief_procedure.pdf)

[Scholastic
Offences](https://uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/undergrad_scholastic_offence_procedure.pdf)

[Undergraduate
Procedures](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/undergrad_scholastic_offence_procedure.pdf)

[Senate Review Board
Appeals](https://uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/SRBA_appeals.pdf)

[Procedures](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/SRBA_appeals_procedure.pdf)

[Course Numbering Policy, Essay Courses, and Hours of
Instruction](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/registration_progression_grad/coursenumbering_SEP.pdf)

[^1]: Policy taken from Dr Cheyney with permission.
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20210422172057/https://studentlife.oregonstate.edu/childcare/family-friendly-syllabi-examples>

[^2]: From U-M Faculty Member Alisse Portnoy, English.

[^3]: [^\]^](https://cac-word-edit.officeapps.live.com/we/wordeditorframe.aspx?ui=en-US&rs=en-US&wopisrc=https%3A%2F%2Fuwoca-my.sharepoint.com%2Fpersonal%2Fdbousfie_uwo_ca%2F_vti_bin%2Fwopi.ashx%2Ffiles%2F8e82cd25736f43129f63a2628b7ef497&wdenableroaming=1&mscc=1&wdodb=1&hid=F4374330-72E1-40DF-9B0E-327AA5AB0F44.0&uih=sharepointcom&wdlcid=en-US&jsapi=1&jsapiver=v2&corrid=6533f902-8072-23c7-dbdf-b389b404b118&usid=6533f902-8072-23c7-dbdf-b389b404b118&newsession=1&sftc=1&uihit=docaspx&muv=1&cac=1&sams=1&mtf=1&sfp=1&sdp=1&hch=1&hwfh=1&dchat=1&sc=%7B%22pmo%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fuwoca-my.sharepoint.com%22%2C%22pmshare%22%3Atrue%7D&ctp=LeastProtected&rct=Normal&wdorigin=AuthPrompt.Sharing.ServerTransfer&instantedit=1&wopicomplete=1&wdredirectionreason=Unified_SingleFlush#_ftnref1)
    This is an **open source document** (CC BY NC 4.0). Feel free to use
    it, modify it, and share it with others .This document was designed
    by [Dr. Torrey Trust.](http://www.torreytrust.com/)

check your attendance with this link https://bit.ly/3210attend2025

Q Hi, for the week 1 participation I've already done the group assignment (although it was only submitted by a peer with my name included), does this count towards my participation? For full participation afterwards would I then need to complete only one quiz, both quizzes, or both quizzes and a written response?

A: There's only one quiz per week. To get the base 70 you just report in your weekly submission that you did the group work, and completed the quiz (2 things). If you want above the base 70 you have to complete one of the written options or a tiktok
The summary of your weekly participation goes in the tab in brightspace - it's where I provide the feedback so that you can improve for your second submission Fyi - somebody already submitted an AI generated reading response, so I'm doing this precisely to discourage that

I like to say that comparing Canada and the US is comparing apples to oranges, they are both fruit, but they're clearly not the same. Stating that they're different is not the same as explaining that they're different.


